[{'Host': 'Prof. Shenghua Gao', 'Location': 'Room 1A-200, SIST Building', 'Time': '14:00—15:00, July 26', 'Speaker': 'Junru Wu. TAMU', 'Bio': 'Junru Wu received the BE degree in Electrical Engineering from Tongji University in 2016. From 2016 to 2017, he was a research assistant at ShanghaiTech University, under the supervision of Prof. Shenghua Gao. He is currently a Ph.D. student at the Visual Informatics Group at Texas A&M University (VITA), supervised by Prof. Zhangyang Wang. He is also working closely with Dr. Xiang Yu and Dr. Manmohan Chandraker at NEC Labs America. His research interests lie in the broad areas of deep learning and computer vision, specifically including image restoration, saliency detection, and deep network compression. His recent works have been published in IEEE TPAMI, ICML, CVPR and IJCAI. He is part of the winning team in CVPR 2018 UG2 Prize Competition.\nSIST-Seminar\xa018068', 'Abstract': 'The current trend of pushing\xa0CNNs\xa0deeper with convolutions has created a pressing demand to achieve higher compression gains on\xa0CNNs\xa0where convolutions dominate the computation and parameter amount (e.g., GoogLeNet, ResNet\xa0and\xa0Wide ResNet). Further, the high energy consumption of convolutions limits its deployment on mobile devices. To this end, we proposed a simple yet effective scheme for compressing convolutions though applying k-means clustering on the weights, compression is achieved through weight-sharing, by only recording K cluster centers and weight assignment indexes. We then introduced a novel spectrally relaxed k-means regularization, which tends to make hard assignments of convolutional layer weights to K learned cluster centers during re-training. We additionally propose an improved set of metrics to estimate energy consumption of CNN hardware implementations, whose estimation results are verified to be consistent with previously proposed energy estimation tool extrapolated from actual hardware measurements. We finally evaluated Deep k-Means across several CNN models in terms of both compression ratio and energy consumption reduction, observing promising results without incurring accuracy loss.'}, {'Host': 'Prof. Qifeng Liao', 'Location': 'Room 1A-402, SIST Building', 'Time': '14:00—15:00, July 26', 'Speaker': 'Dr. Jinglai Li. SJTU', 'Bio': 'Dr. Jinglai Li Received his Bachelor’s degree in Applied Mathematics from the Sun Yat-Sen University in 2002 and his\xa0Ph.D\xa0degree in mathematics from the State University of New York at Buffalo in 2007. In 2007-2010, he did postdoctoral research in the\xa0department\xa0of Engineering Science and Applied Mathematics of the Northwestern University. In 2010, he moved to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, working as a postdoctoral associate at the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics. He joined the faculty of the Shanghai Jiaotong University in 2012, where he is now a distinguished research fellow at the Institute of Natural Science. He is also holding a visiting faculty position at MIT. Li’s main research interests are scientific computing, computational statistics, uncertainty quantification, as well as the applications in various scientific and engineering problems. His mathematical interests lie on the interface between statistical science and scientific computing. Jinglai Li has published in several scientific journals including the SIAM Journal of Applied Mathematics, Journal of Computational Physics, and Optics Letters. Jinglai Li has also been invited to speak in numerous conference and workshops such as the SIAM Annual Meeting, SIAM Conference of Uncertainty Quantification, SIAM Conference of Computational Science and Engineering.\nResearch Interests：\nScientific Computing, Computational Statistics, Uncertainty Quantification\nSIST-Seminar\xa018067', 'Abstract': 'We consider Bayesian inference problems with computationally intensive likelihood functions. We propose a Gaussian process (GP) based method to approximate the joint distribution of the unknown parameters and the data. In particular, we write the joint density approximately as a product of an approximate posterior density and an exponentiated GP surrogate. We then provide an adaptive algorithm to construct such an approximation, where an active learning method is used to choose the design points. With numerical examples, we illustrate that the proposed method has\xa0competitive\xa0performance against existing approaches for Bayesian computation.'}, {'Host': 'Prof. Qifeng Liao', 'Location': 'Room 1A-200, SIST Building', 'Time': '10:15—11:15, July 18', 'Speaker': 'Prof. Nicholas Zabaras. ND', 'Bio': 'Prof. Nicholas Zabaras joined Notre Dame in 2016 as the Viola D. Hank Professor of Computational Science and Engineering after serving as Uncertainty Quantification Chair and founding director of the “Warwick Centre for Predictive Modeling (WCPM)” at the University of Warwick. He is the Director of the interdisciplinary University of Notre Dame “Center for Informatics and Computational Science (CICS)” that aims to bridge the areas of data-sciences, scientific computing and uncertainty quantification for complex multiscale/multiphysics problems in science and engineering. He is also serving as the Hans Fisher Senior Fellow with the Institute for Advanced Study at the Technical University of Munich where recently was appointed "TUM Ambassador". He is also an Honorary Professor at the Dept. of Mathematics at the University of Hong Kong. Prior to this, he spent 23 years serving in all academic ranks of the faculty at Cornell University where he was the director of the “Materials Process Design and Control Laboratory (MPDC)”. He received his Ph.D. in Theoretical and Applied Mechanics from Cornell, after which he started his academic career at the faculty of the University of Minnesota. Professor Zabaras\' research focuses on the integration of computational mathematics, statistics, and scientific computing for the predictive modeling of complex systems. He has been honored with the Wolfson Research Merit Award from the Royal Society, the Michael Tien \'72 Excellence in Teaching Prize from Cornell University, and the Presidential Young Investigator Award from the National Science Foundation.\nSIST-Seminar 18065', 'Abstract': 'We will briefly review recent advances in the solution of stochastic PDEs using Bayesian deep encoder-decoder networks. These models have been shown to work remarkably well for uncertainty quantification tasks in very-high dimensions. In this talk through examples in computational physics and chemistry, we will address their potential impact for (a) modeling dynamic problems (b) accounting for model form uncertainty in coarse grained simulations and (c) providing the means to coarse graining and automatic collective variable selection in atomistic models. We will start with an application to dynamic multiphase flow problems typical of geological carbon storage process-based multiphase flow models. We will show the ability to capture dynamics as well as discontinuities in both the spatial and stochastic domain. We will continue by investigating the potential of4 improving the Reynolds Average Navier Stokes Equations based turbulence models by replacing the anisotropic Reynolds stress with a LES data trained Bayesian neural network. Challenges in capturing physical invariance relations in the design of the neural network will be outlined. Finally, we will discuss the use of encoder-decoder networks in automatically coarse graining atomistic systems and in deriving a generative model of the high-dimensional atomic configuration space. We formulate the discovery of collective variables (CVs) as a Bayesian inference problem and consider the CVs as hidden generators of the full-atomistic trajectory. This allows us to compute estimates of observables as well as our probabilistic confidence on them. The discovered CVs are related to physicochemical properties which are essential for understanding mechanisms especially in unexplored complex systems.'}, {'Host': 'Prof. Qifeng Liao', 'Location': 'Room 1A-200, SIST Building', 'Time': '10:15—11:15, July 18', 'Speaker': 'Prof. Nicholas Zabaras. ND', 'Bio': 'Prof. Nicholas Zabaras joined Notre Dame in 2016 as the Viola D. Hank Professor of Computational Science and Engineering after serving as Uncertainty Quantification Chair and founding director of the “Warwick Centre for Predictive Modeling (WCPM)” at the University of Warwick. He is the Director of the interdisciplinary University of Notre Dame “Center for Informatics and Computational Science (CICS)” that aims to bridge the areas of data-sciences, scientific computing and uncertainty quantification for complex multiscale/multiphysics problems in science and engineering. He is also serving as the Hans Fisher Senior Fellow with the Institute for Advanced Study at the Technical University of Munich where recently was appointed "TUM Ambassador". He is also an Honorary Professor at the Dept. of Mathematics at the University of Hong Kong. Prior to this, he spent 23 years serving in all academic ranks of the faculty at Cornell University where he was the director of the “Materials Process Design and Control Laboratory (MPDC)”. He received his Ph.D. in Theoretical and Applied Mechanics from Cornell, after which he started his academic career at the faculty of the University of Minnesota. Professor Zabaras\' research focuses on the integration of computational mathematics, statistics, and scientific computing for the predictive modeling of complex systems. He has been honored with the Wolfson Research Merit Award from the Royal Society, the Michael Tien \'72 Excellence in Teaching Prize from Cornell University, and the Presidential Young Investigator Award from the National Science Foundation.\nSIST-Seminar\xa018065', 'Abstract': 'We will briefly review recent advances in the solution of stochastic PDEs using Bayesian deep encoder-decoder networks. These models have been shown to work remarkably well for uncertainty quantification tasks in very-high dimensions. In this talk through examples in computational physics and chemistry, we will address their potential impact for (a) modeling dynamic problems (b) accounting for model form uncertainty in\xa0coarse grained\xa0simulations and (c) providing the means to\xa0coarse graining\xa0and automatic collective variable selection in atomistic models. We will start with an application to dynamic multiphase flow problems typical of geological carbon storage process-based multiphase flow models. We will show the ability to capture dynamics as well as discontinuities in both the spatial and stochastic domain. We will continue by investigating the potential of4 improving the Reynolds Average Navier Stokes Equations based turbulence models by replacing the anisotropic Reynolds stress with\xa0a LES\xa0data trained Bayesian neural network. Challenges in capturing physical invariance relations in the design of the neural network will be outlined. Finally, we will discuss the use of encoder-decoder networks in automatically\xa0coarse graining\xa0atomistic systems and in deriving a generative model of the high-dimensional atomic configuration space. We formulate the discovery of collective variables (CVs) as a Bayesian inference problem and consider the CVs as hidden generators of the full-atomistic trajectory. This allows us to compute estimates of observables as well as our probabilistic confidence on them. The discovered CVs are related to physicochemical properties which are essential for understanding mechanisms\xa0especially\xa0in unexplored complex systems.'}, {'Host': 'Prof. Xiaopei Liu', 'Location': 'Room 1A-200, SIST Building', 'Time': '14:00—15:00, July 17', 'Speaker': 'Prof. Qin Jing. PolyU HK', 'Bio': 'Dr. QIN, Jing is currently an assistant professor in the Centre for Smart Health, School of Nursing, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University. He received his\xa0PhD\xa0degree in Computer Science and Engineering from the Chinese University of Hong Kong in 2009. Dr. Qin received the Champion in The 3rd Hong Kong Innovation Day and Innovation Awards Competition, Medical Image Analysis-MICCAI’17 Best Paper Award, the Best Paper Award in Medical Image Computing in International Conference on Medical Imaging and Augmented Reality 2016, the Hong Kong Medical and Health Device Industries Association Student Research Award in 2009 and Global Scholarship Program for Research Excellence (CNOOC Grants) from CUHK in 2008. He and his collaborators were nominated for\xa0outstanding\xa0paper award in International Simulation and Gaming Association 40th Annual Conference in 2009. Dr. Qin’s research interests include medical image processing, virtual/augmented reality for healthcare and medicine training, deep learning, visualization and human-computer interaction and health informatics.\nSIST-Seminar\xa018066', 'Abstract': 'State-of-the-art information technologies continue to promote the development of surgical technology towards automation, intelligence\xa0and\xa0personalization. Dr. Qin and his collaborators have more than 10 years of experience in developing intelligent computer-assisted surgery systems using various machine learning and virtual reality technologies. In this talk, Dr. Qin will first introduce their recent works in using deep learning models for automated segmentation of medical images, including automated segmentation of liver CT images, automated segmentation of brain MR images, automated segmentation of cardiac MR images, automated segmentation of prostate MR images, and automated segmentation of 3D prenatal ultrasound images, etc.; these segmentation techniques lay a solid foundation for the construction of intelligent surgical training and planning systems. Subsequently, Dr. Qin will introduce several virtual reality based surgical training and planning systems developed in recent years, including orthopedic operations, ultrasound-guided interventions, radiology vascular interventions, cholecystectomy, plastic surgery and robotic surgery.'}, {'Host': 'Prof. Mingtuo Zhou', 'Location': 'Room 1C-502, SIST Building', 'Time': '14:30—15:30, July 9', 'Speaker': 'Victor Bonhomme & Dr. Lei Zhang. iExec', 'Bio': "Lei\xa0ZHANG,\xa0PhD,\xa0expert\xa0on Blockchain and Security, security director. He is currently leading the security team to build a Blockchain based cloud computing at iExec Blockchain Tech, France. He is a member of IEEE,\xa0key\xa0member of\xa0OpenFog\xa0Consortium, EEA (Enterprise Ethereum Alliance), and co-chairman of OCWG (blockchain\xa0Offchain\xa0Computing Working Group) to push the standardization of Blockchain based off-chain computing. His expert covers Blockchain, Security, Internet of Things, and Cloud Computing. He worked previously for\xa0Intel,and has multiple US / International Patents on Security and Wireless Communications. He also has a strong research background, he worked as a researcher in INRIA (Institut National de Recherche en Informatique et en Automatique), France; and an invited researcher in NICTA (National ICT of Australian). He received his Ph.D. degree in Computer Science from Universite de Toulouse and NICTA (National ICT of Australia) in 2009. He received his engineering degrees in Automation and Computer Science from Polytech'Lille, France (2005). He participates and coordinates several International and European projects on\xa0Internet\xa0of Things, Cloud computing\xa0and\xa0Cyber-Security.\nVictor is a software engineer, graduated from INSA of Lyon. Thanks to many years of working experience as the former CTO in a startup revolutionizing the entertainment industry in China, he knows best how to bootstrap projects facing thousands of users, meeting high requirements in terms of user experience and scalability. Lately, when in charge of the software stack of a quantitative hedge fund in Shenzhen, he developed an expertise in building robust and heavy-load resistant software that you can entrust with the delicate task of moving millions of dollars around, day and night, and still getting a peaceful sleep.\nSIST-Seminar\xa018063", 'Abstract': 'The presentation (from the team iExec) will focus on Blockchain technology, the involved security mechanisms, as well as the Blockchain based iExec ecosystem.'}, {'Host': 'Prof. Junrui Liang', 'Location': 'Room 1D-302, SIST Building', 'Time': '10:00—11:00, July 23', 'Speaker': 'Prof. Yabin Liao', 'Bio': 'Yabin Liao is an Assistant Professor in Engineering at Pennsylvania State University-Erie, The Behrend College. His research lies in energy harvesting, vibration\xa0and\xa0damping.\nDr. Liao received his Ph.D. in Mechanical Engineering in 2005, and M.S.E. in Electrical Engineering in 2004, both from Arizona State University. Before\xa0that\xa0he received his B.E. in Automotive Engineering in 1999 from Tsinghua University. He taught in the Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering at Arizona State University from 2006-2017 before he joined Penn State Erie in 2017. Dr. Liao has published 10 articles in journals such as Journal of Sound and Vibration, Smart Materials and Structures, and Journal of Intelligent Material Systems and Structures. He is a regular reviewer for more than 9 international\xa0journals,\xa0and a member of ASME.\nSIST-Seminar\xa018054', 'Abstract': 'In the past few decades, research and development in renewable energy have exploded. Energy harvesting is the process of capturing the ambient surrounding energy and converting it into usable electrical energy. The concept of power harvesting works toward developing self-powered devices that do not require replaceable power supplies, for example, wireless sensors for structural health monitoring, control systems, and wearable medical devices. Vibration energy harvesting can be achieved by using\xa0electro-mechanical\xa0transducers such as electromagnetics, electrostatics or piezoelectrics. Piezoelectrics have the ability that generates an electric charge in response to applied mechanical stress, making it a suitable material for energy harvesting from vibration, which is abundant in\xa0environment. Recent advances in microelectronics technologies have led to a reduction in power consumption of microelectromechanical (MEMS) wireless sensor systems, to the low mW level or even μW level, making piezoelectric energy harvesting a viable solution to self-powered wireless sensors today.\nThis presentation provides a complete and system-level overview of the modeling and analysis of piezoelectric vibration energy harvesters.\xa0First\xa0it discusses the mechanical modeling of energy harvesters, resulting in an equivalent single-degree-of-freedom (SDOF) system. Then the equivalent system is linked to the energy harvesting circuit interface through the equivalent circuit and impedance techniques. Lastly, the behavior of energy harvesters connected to different circuit interfaces such as resistive (REH), standard (SEH), and synchronized switch harvesting on inductor (SSHI) are discussed, most importantly, the concept of power limit and the effect of electromechanical coupling.'}, {'Host': 'red (IR) semiconductor optoelectronic devices such as lasers and photodetectors are required for many applications in chemical sensing, greenhouse gas/pollution and pipeline monitoring, homeland security, industrial process control, medical diagnostics, and many other practical applications.\xa0 In the past, many applications were primarily limited by the lack of efficient mid-IR semiconductor lasers operating at room temperature.\xa0 Since the emergence of\xa0intersubband\xa0quantum cascade (QC) and interband cascade (IC) lasers in 1994, mid-IR semiconductor lasers have been developed with remarkable progress and successes in many applications.\xa0 For example, an IC laser has been operated over 5 years in Curiosity Rover (好奇号火星探测车) and successfully detected CH4 on Mars. In this talk, I will review the current status of mid-IR semiconductor lasers and other relevant optoelectronic devices, and discuss examples of their applications, as well as their future prosp', 'Location': '\xa0 \xa0 \xa0\xa0Prof. Baile Chen\nAbs', 'Time': 'July 12\nLocation:\xa0 \xa0\xa0Room 1A-200, SIST Buil', 'Speaker': ' \xa0', 'Bio': '/QDL.ou.edu/\nSIST-Seminar\xa018064', 'Abstract': 'Dr. Yang received the B.Sc. degree in physics from Zhejiang University in 1982, and the M.Sc. and Ph.D. degrees in physics from Nanjing University in 1984 and 1987, respectively.\xa0 He is the inventor of interband cascade (IC) lasers with research activities ranging from condensed matter physics to semiconductor quantum devices.\xa0 Prior to joining OU as a professor in 2007, he was a Principal Member of Engineering Staff and a Task Manager at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL) in California, where he led the development of advanced mid-IR IC lasers for applications in Earth sciences and planetary explorations. He is a fellow of both OSA and IEEE, and the recipient of the 2018 IEEE Photonics Society Aron Kressel Award.\xa0 More information about his group can be found from\xa0'}]